SURMA: Surprise.
I'm back.
It's been awhile, and I
apologize, but I thought,
we probably have seen enough
of Paul's face for a while.
So I thought I'd just swoop
in and do a video of my own
for a change.
So here I am.
And I thought I'd show you
a simple HTTP/2 server.
It's a tool that I've written
a long time ago for a Udacity
course I did about
HTTP an HTTP/2.
I should probably put
the link down here,
or in the description--
you'll probably find a link
to the Udacity course there.
And it's a tool that you
just download and start,
and it surfs the current
directory over HTTP/2.
So it's very similar to
Python's simple HTTP/2 server
to Python's simple HTTP server,
but my server does HTTP/2.
And it needed the new tool,
because HTTP/2, by design,
is always encrypted and always
needs a TLS certificate.
And because generating
these for certificates
is really annoying and
really time consuming,
I just built it
straight into the tool.
So it does it right away for
you, and you just start it
and it spins up, and there
you go with the HTTP/2.
And it really didn't go because
Go was very early with support
on HTTP/2 and because
I just love Go.
But back when I wrote it, they
didn't have support for Push,
and that was one
of the big things
that I wanted to
play around with.
So what I did is I
basically grabbed
the code from the
[INAUDIBLE] library
put it in my project and
monkey-patched support for Push
in there.
But now, just a few weeks
ago, Go 1.8 came out,
and while there's
lots of improvements
and some of performance and
garbage collection, but also
they now have native
support for Push.
So I could finally throw out
my monkey-patched version.
And I used the opportunity
when I was working on the tool
anyway to basically to
do a whole refactoring.
To just split the code
up-- it was really messy,
really grown--
and make nice little
files and modules
and make it more
accessible for all of you
out there, who may want
to contribute to this tool
because you want a
feature or something.
So now the code is hopefully
much more modular, much more
readable.
And I thought I'd just dive
in and explain a little bit
on how it now works.
So before I had a
so-called Push manifest--
and this Push manifest
was just a way for you
to define which resources are
supposed to be pushed when
a certain request comes in.
And Eric Bidelman and I
kind of came up with that,
and we kind of wanted to
make an industry standard.
But it turns out that most
people already had a solution,
and those were actually
HTTP link headers.
So now I kind of threw
away this manifest idea,
and went back to
basically allowing
you to specify headers--
because that's something
that people wanted to have
anyway, because sometimes
you can experiment
with caching
headers, or you need
to add custom headers
for whatever reason,
or you do sub-circuit
work, for example.
So I added that and
sketched up a little config,
because sometimes you want it
to do single-page applications,
where you need to do rewrites.
And I sketched on a
config, and, in the end,
I kind of realized what I
had was pretty much the same
as Firebase has on
their static hosting.
So I decided to basically
just adopt the entire Firebase
config.
Which is pretty cool, because,
while Firebase does have a tool
to allow your
offline development
for the static hosting, they
don't support HTTP/2 or Push.
And so with simplehttp2server,
you can kind of do that now.
I mean, it's not
100% high fidelity,
the implementation that I wrote.
But so far, it's worked
with every product
that I have on Firebase. and
I thought that's pretty cool.
So yeah.
After that, I basically
just got implementing,
and that's what I
want to talk about.
So if you want to start
by getting the code,
you would have to
go on to GitHub.
It is in the Google Chrome
org in the record called
simplehttp2server--
who would have thought--
and the Read Me has hopefully
all the information you need.
How to get it, how to install
it, but, also obviously,
it has the code.
And so the entry point to
the code, the main function--
literally, the main function--
is in simplehttp2server.go.
And in a way, it's
straightforward.
It's just a lot
of manual config,
because I'm doing some
tricky stuff, which
I'm going to explain later.
But I do flag parsing.
I set up the server, and
then I have one function
which is going to be called for
every request that comes in.
And this function gets pretty
similar to Express-- actually
gets a response
object where you put
in your response and your
headers in the response,
and the request object
has all the request data.
And I basically wrote a function
called "process with config"
that takes both these
objects and just mangles them
according to the config.
So if the request
matches a rewrite rule,
it will just
rewrite the request.
If the request
matches a header rule,
it will add these
headers to the response,
and then just returns.
What you get back is you figure
out if you have to redirect it,
because then you stop, or
otherwise you will push
the resources-- if
there's any link headers--
or you will grab the files from
the file system that you need,
and just push them
out to the client.
And I have one bit.
I used the Gzip implementation
from The New York Times.
They have a Go
implementation for Gzip
Not for Gzip but for an
HTTP-compatible version of Gzip
where, as long as I'm sure
that the contents of the file
are text-based, I'm
going to run through Gzip
And I think a lot of
local development tools
are missing out on this feature,
because in production you
almost always want to have Gzip
enabled, especially for CSS,
because there's so much wins
if you are enable Gzip for CSS.
And in local development,
you miss out on these gains,
and so you might spend
time optimizing things that
don't need optimizing.
So, with simplehttp2server,
you always
have Gzip enabled for
local development, which
I think is pretty important.
And if it is Gzip then
I just put up the files.
And that's basically the
whole request-response cycle.
So I've been mentioning
Push, but I said
I removed the Push manifests.
So how does that work now?
So most CDNs use a link
header, the HTTP link header.
If it has a "rel=preload,"
the CDN's like,
Cloudflare or Arcam, I will turn
this header into an additional
push.
So if you look into the
Read Me further down,
you will have an example
where the header's down here,
where I say the key
is "link"-- so I'm
specifying a link header--
and the value is
the file that I want
to push, in angle brackets.
And then I say "rel=preload,"
because only rel=preload will
be pushed.
There's also "prefetch,"
which will actually
make the browser download
and parse the entire file.
So preload is a
little different.
And usually it's
also a good idea
to specify what this file is--
if it's an image or a script--
because the browser might
prioritize how much bandwidth
to allocate to that push.
But that's stuff that this
tool allows to play around
with and experiment.
So this is now
how you do pushes.
And another thing I want to
touch on-- which I thought
was--
I felt a little bit
smart after doing it,
but then it turns out a lot
of people do it already,
but still, I totally
thought I came up with it--
is the hijack HTTP
listener that I wrote.
If you look into
the HTTPS detect.go,
what I'm doing here is--
for a web server, you usually
open a listener on port 8080
or some port that listens
for incoming connections
and then it gives a connection,
and usually that connection
is handed to the web server.
And the web server reads
from the connection,
does the HTTP protocol parsing,
all that kind of shenanigans,
and sends back a response
via the connection.
This hijack listener
basically is
a wedge in between the web
server and the listener.
Because the problem is that if
you bind an HTTP web server,
which HTTP/2 practically
is, to port 8080,
and you type "localhost:8080"
in your browser,
the browser will attempt to
connect using HTTP plain text.
And it's just going to fail,
because the browser sends
a plain text request,
but the server
is trying to do a TLS
handshake, and it's just
going to fail miserably and it's
going to close the connection.
So what I'm doing
here, basically,
is I'm taking the connection
before it gets to the server
implementation, and
checking if the first byte
on the connection
is the number 22.
It's the check I'm
doing right here.
If it's the number 22,
I can be really sure
that it is an HTTPS connection,
because the first byte
of the TLS handshake is byte 22.
So if that happens, then
I say, I'm fine, continue,
go to the web server.
If it's not, however, I
basically just ignore whatever
the server is-- the
client is sending me,
and just dump a redirect
response to the web--
to the browser, so
the browser knows,
oh, I have to
reconnect via HTTPS,
and now it will be an
encrypted connection.
So now, even if you
forget to type in HTTPS,
it will redirect you, and
you won't even notice.
So it always works
which I thought
is super helpful, because
I didn't have it before
and it was super annoying.
So this is like a
really neat trick
that I found, and I
thought was kind of cool.
I guess you could talk a little
bit about the Firebase config.
Basically in Go, you usually
take any kind of JSON
file by defining a struct.
And that's what I did here.
I just wrote down what the
JSON looks like as a struct,
and the Go JSON powers just
will fill in the fields for me.
So it's super easy and
go to read JSON files.
And then I just take, as I
said, with a process function.
Take response and request, and
go through all these rules,
and do whenever I find something
that matches this request.
The only problem
here is that Firebase
shows not an odd
format, but the way
you define patterns to limit
rules only to certain requests,
they use globbing.
So I expect this, usually, but
they use globbing, and globbing
is what you usually
used on shelves.
So if you type something
like "star.js,"
it means every file
that ends in ".js."
You probably have
encountered this.
And these are
extended globs, which
add a few more capabilities
to this so-called globbing.
So, while "star" only matches
files in the current directory,
"star star" means all the
files in this directory
and all other
directories below this.
You have a syntax to group
multiple file endings.
But the problem is
that this is kind
of a very node-specific
syntax, and there
is no package for it in Go.
So I had no choice
but to write my own.
And I thought--
I'm not going to explain
how it works, but basically
what I'm doing is I'm
taking the glob string
and using simple string-replace
functions to turn
the glob into a Reg X.
I'm going to leave it as--
let's call it an exercise for
the reader, to read this code
and understand it
and explain why there
is a pig emoji in the middle.
So enjoy that.
But basically what
it allows me to do
is to compile these
extended globs
and turn it into
Reg X's, and then I
can use the old Reg
X matching functions
to see if a request should be
mangled with this rule, or not.
So I thought, that's kind of
like a neat little detail.
And something I want
to touch on in the end
is that, in the repo, you'll
find all the instructions
on how to install
it on your system.
So if you have Go installed,
you can just "go get,"
and install simplehttp2server.
If you don't have
Go installed, you
can find binaries in
the release section,
which I linked to here.
So you just click there, and
you'll see for every release,
I upload binaries for Mac
OS, Linux, and Windows.
So whatever system you're
on, you should be fine.
I also have Linux on binary, so
you can use on your Raspberry
Pie, if you are into that.
I have it running at home
on Raspberry Pie, which
is kind of cool.
I also added a Brew formula,
which makes it really easy,
if you're on Mac OS, to
just tap into the Brew keg,
I think they call it,
and install it by that
and keep up to date,
because it automatically
updates with Brew.
And also, recently, I added a
Docker file, which I thought
was pretty neat.
Because you don't
need to have anything
installed in your
system except Docker,
and can surf the current
directory via simplehttp2server
using the Docker image.
And then, if you wanted
to, you could even
push the Docker image to
a Google Cloud platform,
and share it with a colleague.
However, I just want to mention
simplehttp2server is not
a production-ready web server.
It's meant for
local development.
So I didn't do any profiling,
performance optimizations--
I didn't even think
about security.
I think by default, it's
completely course-enabled,
so it just opens up
everything to the world.
Don't use it in production.
It's for local development.
But, if you want to
fix something up,
then I feel much more
comfortable now inviting you
into the repo,
because now the code
is actually more approachable.
So if you want to do that,
feel free to go to the repo.
I'll put links to all of
this in the description,
so you can just
click and go there--
maybe start.
That would be nice.
Also, if you like this video,
and want more of those,
you should probably subscribe.
Because, then, you'll get
notified about new videos.
I think-- I think that's
it for this video and--
it hurts me to say-- but
I guess the next video
is going to be Paul, again.
Well, stick around if
you want to see that.
See you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]